# Movie-Recommender-System
 Parallel Recommender System Using a Collaborative Filtering Algorithm for Movie Recommender System
 
In the last decade, recommender systems have gotten a lot of attention. A recommender system sometimes known as a recommendation engine which filters most popular and interesting things based on user's "rating" or "preference" for an item. Collaboration filtering, content-based filtering, and hybrid filtering are the three most used conventional techniques. Examples of the applications include recommending books, movies, and some other commercial systems. Though collaborative filtering (CF) is one of the most popular algorithms due to its simplicity, but it consists of noises in data, i.e., data inconsistency and it also has a great impact on algorithm performance. To reduce the data noise and speed up the time, Sun & Luo (2020) developed a novel parallel recommending system based on CF with correntropy. Also, to reduce the computational cost, they employed SPARK framework to facilitate parallel computing.

In this research, we are using SPARK Framework for making movie recommender system. We are using two datasets for making the recommender system, one is from MovieLens 100k and another is from Netflix-6.2M. To build this platform, we are using Databricks Community Edition which allows to make clusters and notebooks just like Google Colab or Jupyter Notebook. At the end of the project, we tried to visualize the overall parallel performance of two datasets, more precisely Ganglia UI provides better cluster report to understand the parallel processing. This helped us to compare and contrast if the system could effectively improve the computational time and achieve a satisfactory performance through invalid data. 
